README.md, before:

# Waste Management System

## Overview
A comprehensive waste management system that helps track and optimize waste collection processes using interactive maps, real-time status updates, and analytics.

## 📸 Project Screenshots
Here are some snapshots of our waste-mangement interface:
![Screenshot 1](/screenshots/1.jpg)
![Screenshot 2](/screenshots/2.jpg)
![Screenshot 3](/screenshots/3.jpg)
![Screenshot 4](/screenshots/4.jpg)
![Screenshot 5](/screenshots/5.jpg)


## 🚀 Features
- Real-time dustbin status tracking
- Interactive map visualization
- Nearest dumping point finder
- Waste distribution analytics
- Responsive web interface

## 🛠 Technology Stack
- Python (Backend with Eel)
- JavaScript (Frontend)
- Leaflet.js (Mapping)
- Bootstrap 5 (UI Framework)
- p5.js (Background Animation)

## 🔜 Planned Enhancements
We welcome contributions to implement the following features:

1. **Persistent Data Storage**
   - Integrate a robust database system (SQLite/PostgreSQL)
   - Implement data persistence for dustbin and dumping point records
   - Create data migration scripts

2. **User Authentication**
   - Develop secure login/registration system
   - Role-based access control
   - Session management
   - Password encryption

3. **Advanced Analytics**
   - Implement machine learning models for waste prediction
   - Create more detailed statistical visualizations
   - Generate comprehensive waste management reports
   - Trend analysis and forecasting

## 🚀 Deployment

### GitHub Pages
The web interface is deployed and accessible at: 
https://razee4315.github.io/waste-management/

### Executable
You can download the latest executable from the [Releases](https://github.com/Razee4315/waste-management/releases) section.

### Local Development
1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Razee4315/waste-management.git
cd waste-management
```

2. Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Run the application
```bash
python main.py
```

## 🤝 Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you're interested in helping develop this project, please read our [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of conduct and the process for submitting pull requests.

### How to Contribute
1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 👥 Author
**Saqlain Abbas**
- GitHub: [@Razee4315](https://github.com/Razee4315)

## 📄 License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Update deployment workflow for live website and releases

README.md, after:

# Waste Management System

## Overview
A comprehensive waste management system that helps track and optimize waste collection processes using interactive maps, real-time status updates, and analytics.

## 📸 Project Screenshots
Here are some snapshots of our waste-mangement interface:
![Screenshot 1](/screenshots/1.jpg)
![Screenshot 2](/screenshots/2.jpg)
![Screenshot 3](/screenshots/3.jpg)
![Screenshot 4](/screenshots/4.jpg)
![Screenshot 5](/screenshots/5.jpg)


## 🚀 Features
- Real-time dustbin status tracking
- Interactive map visualization
- Nearest dumping point finder
- Waste distribution analytics
- Responsive web interface

## 🛠 Technology Stack
- Python (Backend with Eel)
- JavaScript (Frontend)
- Leaflet.js (Mapping)
- Bootstrap 5 (UI Framework)
- p5.js (Background Animation)

## 🔜 Planned Enhancements
We welcome contributions to implement the following features:

1. **Persistent Data Storage**
   - Integrate a robust database system (SQLite/PostgreSQL)
   - Implement data persistence for dustbin and dumping point records
   - Create data migration scripts

2. **User Authentication**
   - Develop secure login/registration system
   - Role-based access control
   - Session management
   - Password encryption

3. **Advanced Analytics**
   - Implement machine learning models for waste prediction
   - Create more detailed statistical visualizations
   - Generate comprehensive waste management reports
   - Trend analysis and forecasting

## 🚀 Deployment

### Live Web Application
The web application is automatically deployed to GitHub Pages with each successful build:
🌐 **Live Site**: https://razee4315.github.io/waste-management/

### Executable Release
With every push to the main branch, a new release is automatically created:
📦 **Latest Release**: [Download from Releases](https://github.com/Razee4315/waste-management/releases)

### Access Methods

#### 1. Web Interface
- Visit the GitHub Pages link above
- No installation required
- Runs directly in your web browser

#### 2. Desktop Application
- Download the latest executable from Releases
- Run locally on your computer
- Full offline functionality

#### 3. Local Development
1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Razee4315/waste-management.git
cd waste-management
```

2. Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Run the application
```bash
python main.py
```

### Deployment Workflow
- Automated CI/CD with GitHub Actions
- Linting and code quality checks
- Builds web and desktop versions
- Deploys to GitHub Pages
- Creates GitHub Release
- Uploads artifacts for easy access

## 🤝 Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you're interested in helping develop this project, please read our [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of conduct and the process for submitting pull requests.

### How to Contribute
1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 👥 Author
**Saqlain Abbas**
- GitHub: [@Razee4315](https://github.com/Razee4315)

## 📄 License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
